Worker concepts doc (#3487)
hashicorp/boundary: website/content/docs/concepts/workers.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Workers
description: |-
  Introduction to Boundary workers
---

# Workers
Boundary's architecture consists of 3 main components:
1. **Control plane** - made up of controllers
2. **Data plane** - made up of workers
3. **Client** - installed on the user's device

**Controllers** are what users authenticate to using the client, they contain Boundary's resources and permissions. In addition, controllers also communicate with external components 
such as the database, KMS, Vault, identity providers, and plugins. **Workers** are primarily used as network proxies for Boundary sessions, they allow you to access 
private targets. Instead of exposing a private network to the public, or allowing users to have access to entire private networks, workers create a direct network 
tunnel between users and targets. 

![IAM Example Structure](/img/access-model.png)

> ## Use cases
> **Session proxying**

Author: ```suggestion
## Use cases
You can utilize workers in various ways depending on your needs. Consider the following use cases.

**Session proxying**
```

You can use workers to proxy sessions between clients and targets located in public or private networks. In addition, you can configure workers in
[multi-hop](#multi-hop-sessions-hcp-ent) sessions and form a chain of proxies to reach deeper into protected networks.

**Worker authentication**

> Workers that are not directly connected to controllers can communicate through intermediary workers to register to the control plane.

Author: ```suggestion
Workers can [authenticate](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/connections-tls#pki-based-worker-authentication) directly to the control plane or through an upstream worker to the control plane. Authenticating through an upstream worker is also referred to as "multi-hop worker authentication".
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Workers
description: |-
  Introduction to Boundary workers
---

# Workers

> 
> ## Overview

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ## Overview

Author: Makes sense

2. **Data plane** - made up of workers
3. **Client** - installed on the user's device

**Controllers** are what users authenticate to using the client, they contain Boundary's resources and permissions. In addition, controllers also communicate with external components 
such as the database, KMS, Vault, identity providers, and plugins. **Workers** are primarily used as network proxies for Boundary sessions, they allow you to access 
private targets. Instead of exposing a private network to the public, or allowing users to have access to entire private networks, workers create a direct network 
tunnel between users and targets. 

![IAM Example Structure](/img/access-model.png)

> ## Use cases

Author: Capabilities

> ## Use cases

Reviewer: I think we need a sentence between the heading and the use cases to act as a transition. What about something like?

> You can configure workers in various ways depending on your needs. Consider the following use cases.

Author: Good idea

> ## Use cases
> You can utilize workers in various ways depending on your needs. Consider the following use cases.

Author: ```suggestion
## Capabilities
You can utilize workers in various ways depending on your needs, as follows:
```

**Session proxying**

Workers can be used to proxy sessions between clients and targets located in public or private networks. In addition, workers can perform 
[multi-hop](#multi-hop-sessions-hcp-ent) sessions, where workers form a chain of proxies to reach deeper into protected networks.

**Worker authentication**

> Workers that are not directly connected to controllers can communicate through intermediary workers to register to the control plane.

Reviewer 2: Might be worth clarifying here that this is also multi-hop, and touching on how workers can auth in single-hop scenarios/ linking to https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/security/connections-tls#client-to-worker-tls

Author: Will do

**Controller proxy**

In situations where controllers need access to a private service but don't have network access to it, workers can act as a proxy for communication. This is currently 
supported for controllers connecting to a [private Vault](/boundary/tutorials/credential-management/hcp-private-vault-cred-injection) 
environment.

**Protocol decryption**

Workers can perform SSH protocol decryption for [credential injection](/boundary/docs/concepts/credential-management#credential-injection-hcp-ent) and [session 
recording](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/session-recordings). For session recording, workers also write the session contents directly to the [storage 
bucket](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/storage-buckets) for the recording.

## Tags

> In the multi-datacenter and multi-cloud operating models, patterns of dividing up controllers, workers, and targets into appropriate regions or networks is often 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In multi-datacenter and multi-cloud operating models, patterns of dividing up controllers, workers, and targets into appropriate regions or networks is often 
```

can [filter](/boundary/docs/concepts/filtering/worker-tags) through, to find the appropriate worker to use for a session. For example, Boundary could filter to workers 
with tag “A”, to connect to targets in “Network A”.

![IAM Example Structure](/img/worker-tags.png)

## Multi-hop sessions <sup>HCP/ENT</sup>
Most organizations want to provide access to infrastructure without exposing private networks. Many organizations also have complex network topologies requiring 
inbound traffic to route through multiple network enclaves in order to reach the target system. 
[Multi-hop](/boundary/docs/configuration/worker#multi-hop-worker-capabilities-hcp-ent) sessions allow two or more workers to be chained together 
across multiple networks to form reverse proxy connections between the user and the target, even in complex networks with strict outbound-only policies.

In multi-hop scenarios, there are typically 3 types of workers:
1. **Ingress worker** - An ingress worker is a worker that is accessible by the client. The client will initiate the connection to the ingress worker.

> 2. **Intermediary worker** - An (optional) intermediary worker sits between ingress and egress workers as part of a multi-hop chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Intermediary worker** - An (optional) intermediary worker sits between ingress and egress workers as part of a multi-hop chain. There can be multiple intermediary workers as part of a multi-hop chain.
```

3. **Egress worker** - An egress worker is a worker that can access the target. The egress worker initiates reverse proxy connections to intermediary or ingress workers.

<Tip>
“Ingress”, “intermediary”, and “egress” are general ways to describe how the respective worker interfaces with resources, and a worker can be more than 1 of those 
at a time. For example in the diagram below, the intermediary worker is also an egress worker since it can access a target. 
</Tip>

> ![IAM Example Structure](/img/concepts-multihop.png)

Author: Thanks!

---
layout: docs
page_title: Workers
description: |-
  Introduction to Boundary workers
---

# Workers

## Overview

> Boundary's architecture consists of 2 main components:

Author: Going to leave it out of this one since I don't really talk about clients at all here, just referring to it as the user

> Boundary's architecture consists of 2 main components:

Author: Good point

1. **Control Plane** - made up of controllers

> 2. **Data Plane** - made up of workers

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Data Plane** - made up of workers
3. **Client** - installed on the user's device
```

> **Controllers** are where users authenticate to, and contain Boundary's resources and permissions. In addition, controllers also communicate with external components 

Reviewer 3: "Controllers are what users authenticate to through a client..."

Author: Will change

> **Controllers** are where users authenticate to, and contain Boundary's resources and permissions. In addition, controllers also communicate with external components 

Author: ```suggestion
**Controllers** are what users authenticate to through a client, and contain Boundary's resources and permissions. In addition, controllers also communicate with external components 
```

2. **Intermediary worker** - An (optional) intermediary worker sits between ingress and egress workers as part of a multi-hop chain.
3. **Egress worker** - An egress worker is a worker that can access the target. The egress worker initiates reverse proxy connections to intermediary or ingress workers.

<Tip>
“Ingress”, “intermediary”, and “egress” are general ways to describe how the respective worker interfaces with resources, and a worker can be more than 1 of those 
at a time. For example in the diagram below, the intermediary worker is also an egress worker since it can access a target. 
</Tip>

![IAM Example Structure](/img/concepts-multihop.png)

Once the persistent connection chain is established between the workers, when the user requests to connect to a target host, they are automatically proxied from:
1. Boundary client to ingress worker
2. Ingress worker to intermediary worker (where applicable)
3. Ingress worker to egress worker
4. Egress worker to desired target

## Deployment
Workers are services that can run on a container or virtual machine, and should be deployed strategically within networks to provide access to targets. In 

> all editions of Boundary, workers are fully self-managed and can be deployed anywhere. In HCP Boundary, 3 HCP-managed workers are automatically deployed with the cluster. 

Reviewer 3: I would drop "3 HCP-managed" and just keep it as:
**_In HCP Boundary, HCP-managed workers are automatically deployed..._**

Author: Will change

> all editions of Boundary, workers are fully self-managed and can be deployed anywhere. In HCP Boundary, 3 HCP-managed workers are automatically deployed with the cluster. 

Author: ```suggestion
all editions of Boundary, workers are fully self-managed and can be deployed anywhere. In HCP Boundary, HCP-managed workers are automatically deployed with the cluster. 
```

To learn more about workers and deployment, see:
* [Worker configuration](/boundary/docs/configuration/worker)
* [Recommended architecture](/boundary/docs/install-boundary/recommended-architecture)
* [Worker system requirements](/boundary/docs/install-boundary/system-requirements)
* [Worker management tutorials](/boundary/tutorials/worker-management)

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
